# Data science for mouse recognition

This folder contains various python notebooks that I wrote when I was
building the mouse input recognition model for my machine learning / deep learning demo.

# Code

**capture.py**: A mouse and keyboard capturer, it listens for mouse or keyboard events and saves then in a file, it's used
as a dataset generation tool. (Only tested on Linux, depends on pymouse and pykeyboard)

**model/**: Contains some serialized versions of the model

**model.py**: Contains the final model used in the demo and based on a research paper

**simple_train.py**: Trains one model with one dataset, using keras, saves training information into a file

**trainer.py**: Executes a grid search to test various ranges of hyperparameters. Trains a network
many times with varying hyperparameters while saving all the training information for later analysis.
With it I trained 30/40 models overnight to see which one performed better.

# Python notebooks

**FCN_Keras.ipynb**: Investigation of Fully Convolutional Networks for time series classification using 
Keras and the UCR Time series archive as datasets: http://www.cs.ucr.edu/~eamonn/time_series_data/

**scikitMouse.ipynb**: Investigates the use of traditional machine learning models for time series
classification of mouse input generated by capture.py. It also contains some investigation about
the specific characteristics of mouse data.

**mouse_challenge_utils.py**: Some utilities for the balabit mouse challenge
**mouse_competition.ipynb**: Tests the main model against the balabit mouse challenge dataset
https://www.balabit.com/blog/releasing-the-balabit-mouse-dynamics-challenge-data-set/

**data_analysis.ipynb**: Analysis of the performance of the many models generated with trainer.py,
contains some visualizations.
